# FEASIBILITY ANALYSIS OF SOLAR POWER PLANT IN CONNECTICUT

As per existing Electric Power Monthly Report by the US EIA, US pays an average electricity tariff of 10.53 cents per kilowatt hour. New England territory ranks as the highest in US mainland in terms of the tariff paid with an average electricity tariff of 15.95 cents per kilowatt hour. In this territory, Connecticut pays the highest average electricity tariff of 17.63 cents per kilowatt hour, approximately 70% higher than US average.

In the New England territory, the total electricity demand growth during peak periods is higher compared to non-peak periods. When the demand increases, plants fueled by gas are used to generate the power. More increase in demand expand the need for power import from other states with an association of transmission cost.When other states on an average rely more on coal as generating fuel, New England rely heavily on natural gas. Environmental norms and other legal implications prevent New England from coal based power plants. Relying more on natural gas and importing power are the major facts that lead to higher power prices in New England territories.

To encounter this problem, we look for an alternative source to replace the conventional power generation with renewable and more reliable source of energy-SOLAR POWER.This project is aimed to find out the economic and technological feasibility of private owned Solar plant at New England by using revenue parameters like Net Profit, Internal Rate of Return(IRR), Net Present Value (NPV). We based our decision on various parameters like installation cost, maintenance cost, funds available, space available and inflation, to analyze how the market price of power will be influenced with the implementation of solar power.
